Docs - CMDB Anatomy (#67)
hamlet-io/docs: docs/foundations/anatomy.md

---
sidebar_label: anatomy
title: Anatomy of a Hamlet
---
import Admonition from 'react-admonitions';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Hamlet CMDBs

> A `Hamlet` is comprised of 2 kinds CMDB - the `Account` CMDB and the `Product` CMDB. An `Account` CMDB contains both the `Tenant` and all `Accounts` within it, whilst individual `Product` CMDBs contain the `Solutions` that define and configure `Components` and `ReferenceData`. Each `Product` CMDB can contain multiple instances of a `Solution`, each corresponding to an `Environment`. Together, Hamlet deploys an instance of a `Solution` into an `Account` within the `Tenant`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `Hamlet` is comprised of an`Account` CMDB and one or many `Product` CMDBs. An `Account` CMDB contains both the `Tenant` and all `Accounts` within it, whilst individual `Product` CMDBs contain the `Solutions` that define and configure `Components` and `ReferenceData`. Each `Product` CMDB can contain multiple instances of a `Solution`, each corresponding to an `Environment`. Together, Hamlet deploys an instance of a `Solution` into an `Account` within the `Tenant`. 
```

> A `root.json` file is required in the root directory that contains all CMDB's. This informs Hamlet that it has reached the origin of the CMDB's and not to search any higher for configuration.

Reviewer: Not sure I saw it that way I would say 

we have a Tenant with multiple accounts = accounts-cmdb 
we have Products which contain Solutions - you can have multiple instances of solutions, know as environments, each instance of a solution is deployed to an Account within the Tenant 

our standard CMDB structure ( accounts-cmdb and product-cmdbs ) then align with this concept

Author: Hows this sound? f7dc966

## Tenant CMDB

The tenant CMDB is used to define an organisation or entity. Configuration applied at the `Tenant` scope will apply across all `Accounts`. A `Tenant` CMDB typically defines owned domain configuration, and creates common and shared configuration or resources that are be accessible (or enforced, where appropriate) by all associated `Accounts` and `Products`. Depending on an organisations requirements a `Tenant` might contain the definitions and deployment templates for an organisation-wide audit-log store, or a collection of security policies that must be enforced everywhere they could apply.

## Account CMDB

The `Account` is linked to the `Tenant` CMDB and inherits its configuration. A `Solution` at the `Account` level defines configuration that is to be used account-wide and be applied to all current and future `Products` within it. An `Account` is tied directly to an provider-specific identifier which Hamlet uses to deploy to that cloud provider. Typically an `Account` will be required for each `Environment` that a `Tenant` contains, however this is only due to best-practice of environment isolation and is not a requirement of an `Account`.

## Product CMDB

> A `Product` is created for one or more `Accounts` and represents a whole project. Typically the largest of the CMDB's, the `Product` inherits any enforced behaviours from the `Account` and its `Tenant`. It is used to define project-specific or unique `Components`, `Profiles` and `ReferenceData`.

Reviewer: Not sure I understand `A `Product` is created for one or more `Accounts` and represents a whole project` 

 I think this would be a Product contains multiple solutions, the solution can be deployed into multiple environments to manage the full lifecycle of your product. 

The solution defines the components, and supporting configuration aimed at deploying your product

Author: Updated: 8176095

 Additional scopes within the `Solution` definition itself allow for further break-down of a project if required.

# Solutions

A `Solution` is the composite structure of all files within a CMDB (including inherrited configuration). Hamlet constructs the `Solution` prior to performing any action requiring the creation of an `Occurrance` such as template generation. The Hamlet CLI can be used to perform queries against a `Solution` directly, providing insight into the composite structure.

> 

Reviewer: A solution is essentially a collection of components which create a functional service. We use components to define specific functions within the service, and from these definitions we create deployments of the solution. 

 we should mention that multiple instances of a solution can be deployed into an environment. I'm not sure we should go to Occurrence level at this stage, occurrences aren't really part of the CMDB. They are the representation of the CMDB used by the engine

Author: Updated in https://github.com/hamlet-io/docs/pull/67/commits/9d3230cfee08f0bf8aabc79a7d1084769a3694f9

> Multiple instances of a `Solution` can be deployed into an `Environment`, each one is known as a `Segment`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multiple `Solutions` can be deployed into an `Environment`, each one is known as a `Segment`. Each `Segment` implements its own services independent but generally related to the other segments
```

# Directory Structure of a Solution
A `Solution` is often spread out over multiple files and directories within a `Product`. The directory structure reflects `Environments` and `Segments`, and the composite of the variations define each `Solution`. "shared" directories contain configuration that is shared across that layer, whilst named-directories will only contribute their configuration to the named `Environment`/`Segment`.

```sh
<cmdb-id>
├── config
│   ├── settings
│   │   ├── <environment>
│   │   │   └── <segment>
│   │   └── shared
│   └── solutionsv2
│       ├── <environment>
│       │   └── <segment>
│       └── shared
│           └── <segment>
└── infrastructure
    ├── cf
    │   └── <environment>
    │       └── <segment>
    │           ├── <deployment-unit>
    │           └── <deployment-unit>
    ├── hamlet
    │   └── <environment>
    │       └── <segment>
    │           └── <deployment-unit>
    └── operations
        └── <environment>
            └── <segment>
```

> At the top level of the structure, the CMDB identifier is the Tenant Id for `Tenants`, Account Id for `Accounts` and Product Id for `Products`. Hamlet uses this to identify the applicable ones at runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the top level of the structure, the CMDB identifier is the Tenant Id for `Tenants`, Account Id for `Accounts` and Product Id for `Products`. During processing hamlet will use these files as markers to determine the appropriate files to include.
```

## Structure of a Solution File

Any file that contributes to a Hamlet `Solution` can contain [`Components`](https://hamlet.io/reference/components), [`ReferenceData`](https://hamlet.io/reference/data) and [`MetaParameters`](https://hamlet.io/reference/meta) data types. Configuration is applied in a top-down manner at the CMDB-level (`Tenant > Account > Product`) and then again at the `Solution`-level (`Environment > Segment > Deployment Unit`). New content is combined with existing, whilst existing content will be overwritten if re-implemented by a more specific scope. This allows for the most effecient implementation for a given use-case. 

> Configuration can be removed for individual scopes by defining it at as an empty object for that scope.

Reviewer: Might need to define the solution file a bit more, a solution file is actually any *.json file within the config/solutionsv2 tree 

You can add components ReferenceData and the whole kit and kaboodle at any level and it will be included as part of the CMDB building

Author: Updated 66731e3
